# Transpose Atoms

Transpose Atoms are atomic, modular chunks of code that build on the core Transpose API Suite to do cool things even faster. The project's goal is to encourage community contribution and grow a repository of use-case centric snippets of code that augment the power of our core suite. Atoms can also be composed to implement very powerful analysis as simply as possible.

### Why Atoms?

The Transpose API Suite exposes the entirety of data on Ethereum. In it's raw format, this data is already quite powerful. A little bit of mixing and post-processing unlocks incredible use cases like fine-grained wallet analysis, sales data aggregation and NFT holder similarity analysis. Atoms expose this powerful functionality in a single line of code.

### How to use Atoms
Each atom is placed in a function in a unique file in the `atoms` directory in this repo.

Atom functions all follow the same format, detailed below.

The first argument is always an initialized `Transpose` SDK object. [See here](https://github.com/TransposeData/transpose-python-sdk) for details on how to set that up.

### Who creates Atoms?
The Transpose team will create the first few Atoms and will gradually add to them over time, but we hope to receive submissions from our community as well. We will be rolling out a reward program to recognize top community contributors. Stay tuned for instructions on how to contribute.

## Contents
- calculate_usd_revenue(api, contract_address, from_date, to_date, fee_rate=1.0): returns the amount of revenue generated by sales of an NFT collection. If no fee rate is provided, it will return the total sales volume. Alternatively, provide a float fee rate (0.04 would be 4%) to get the amount earned in fees by the collection creator. 
- get_recent_token_transfers(api, contract_address, limit): returns [limit] recent transfers for an NFT collection
- calculate_top_holders(api, contract_address, num_holders): returns [num_holders] top holders of an NFT collection
- get_similar_collections(api, contract_address, num_to_return): returns [num_to_return] contracts with most overlapping ownership with contract_address

## Atom Format
All Atom files should be formatted the same way for easy usage and composability
```
# import packages required for the atom
from transpose import Transpose

# import other atoms this atom depends on

def name_of_atom(api: transpose, arg1: type...):
    """
    Docstring explains what the atom does

    :atom-dependencies: list any atoms this atom depends on
    :param api: Transpose API object
    :param arg1: First arg
    ...
    :return: what the atom returns 
    """

    # Atom code goes here
    ...


if __name__ == "__main__":
    # code to run an example of the atom goes here
```


## Setup
1. Sign up for a free key at https://transpose.io 
2. `python3 -m venv env`
3. `source env/bin/activate`
4. `python -m pip --upgrade pip`
5. `python -m pip install -r requirements.txt`
6. `python atoms/top_holders.py` 

These commands get your environment set up and run the top_holders Atom. You can set up your key as an environment variable or add it **as a string** into the Transpose object initialization.

ex:

`api = Transpose("YOUR_KEY_HERE")`

The rest should work out of the box!